# APS-Failure-at-Scania-Trucks
Analyzing Tree Based Methods for Classification

    The dataset files used for this problem were taken from https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/APS+Failure+at+Scania+Trucks#. Unfortunately, the training set file was too large (>25MB) to fit in this repository, so the training and testing csv files used for this problem were not included in the Problem 2 folder. If you wish to get the files, just download them directly from the given link to your local machine. For parts (a-d), you can find my answers to the questions along with the code in the jupyter notebook found in the Problem 2 Folder. As for parts (e-f), I exported the imputed data in the pandas dataframe to .arff file format to use the Logistic Model Trees Classifier in WEKA. As stated above, these files were too large (>25MB) to include in the repository, so the files named imbalanced_train.arff and imbalanced_test.arff used in the python codes will not be found in the Problem 2 folder. The code I used to run WEKA with the python wrapper module can also be found in this folder. The code file that I ran for part (e) is named WEKA_LMT_Imbalanced.py and the code I ran for part (f) is named WEKA_LMT_SMOTE. Along with the code there is two html files, which are printouts of the console in Spyder IDE to show the ROC, AUC, Confusion matrix and Misclassification error for the training and test sets. The output for part (e) is shown in the file named LMT_Imbalanced.pdf file, while the output for part (f) is shown in the file named LMT_SMOTE.pdf.
